1.0.0
-----

First public release. With this version of motor it's possible to
organize project files (sources, headers, libraries, etc), edit, compile
and debug programs without a need to leave the IDE and run any other
programs, automatically check in/out updated project files from/to your
CVS repositories and import projects into them. Also it can generate
distribution packages of projects.

1.2.3
-----

Some compilation problems were fixed.
Some interface related bugs fixed.
Some code cleanups made.

Editor window (activated with F5) list improved.

Shifting selected text one tab forward and backward feature added to the
internal text editor.

One customization feature added. Now a file named filetypes
in /usr/local/share/motor or ~/.motor/ directory describes regexs and
types of files matching to them.

1.4.7
-----

Now it's possible to access the motor configuration dialog from the
project creation window.

A bug with finding an appropriate syntax for a file in editor fixed.

"Include project info" option added to the package generation dialog. It
causes motor to put the project information file named
motor.project.info into the distribution package. It can be used by
motor on another system when the source is unpacked and new project is
created in "from files" mode.

Very annoying bug related to "from cvs" project creation mode fixed. The mode
didn't work and sometimes it even could delete a local cvs repository.

The source editor was improved. Undo feature added.

Quite a very big source rewrite took place. I've implemented project
templates support wanting to make it support almost any languages and
development tools. Since templates need an extensible definition
language, I used the parser library written by my co-worker Roman
Khnykin <romaroma@rr.org.ua>. It's a wonderful library that allows a
programmer not to think about any text output in his programs. If you're
intrested you can find it in the motor source distribution in parser/
directory. Other template defining issues are explained in the README
file.

1.7.12
------

NOTE:	If you are upgrading your motor from version 1.0.0, you should
	"rm -rf ~/.motor" so this version could work properly.

A bug in distribution generation module was fixed. It caused motor not
to check for configure.in presence if "use autoconf" option was on.

Another bug in the distribution generation module. Because of this one
motor generated a little bit wrong Makefile when "add connected
libraries" options was on.

Added a template for generating .tar.gz distribution of library/static
project.

Several interface improvements were made.

Another bug was found in the CVS integration module. Because of it the
module worked only partitially.

RPM support has been added. Now motor can generate RPM distributions of
projects of any of standard types. Special thanks to Avi Alkalay
<aviram@yahoo.com> for some RPM explanations. 

Now motor checks for CVS being installed. If it doesn't find it all the
CVS operations are blocked. Thanks to Graham Swallow
<gps@trix.dircon.co.uk> for a report.

One more config file added. Its name is external and it allows users to
define external programs invoked with shortcut keys.

Evaluate/Modify dialog has been included into motor's debugging
facilities.

Now it's possible to define user color schemes for motor. The config
file name is themes.

1.9.14
------

Fixed a bug. Motor didn't allow to quick jump to a line in the source
containing an error or warning after compilation.

Another bug has been fixed. "Go to cursor" feature in internal GDB
front-end didn't work in sources from connected libraries.

Some blocks operations were improved in the internal editor.

Now motor detects the line in source where signal was received.

1.11.16
-------

Fixed a bug with incorrect breakpoints handling.

Now motor can leave generated Makefile.motor files on disk. Also it
allows you to replace standard "make -f Makefile.motor" command with
your command line needed to make a project.

Gettextized. I made a .po file for Russian language. So, .po's for
various languages are welcome now :)

Fixed several bugs in the editor module.

1.14.19
-------

F8 and F7 keys didn't work when used to start a debug session.

New useful feature added, its name is "Motor grepper". It allows to grep
a single file, a set of folders or even connected libraries to find a
substring or a line matching a regexp.

Now it's possible to specify additional commands for building and
installing the project to be executed after a usual procedure of
performing a task.

Now the grepper tool invoked with Alt-F can perform searches in files of
connected projects.

File-Generate.. item added to the menu and also appropriate feature appeared.

New version of the parser library by Roman Khnykin is used.

2.0.0
-----

Source code symbols browser added. It allows to browse symbols found by
ctags and quickly move between definitions in the source.

Lots of code clean-ups. The source was improved dramatically :)

Ported to FreeBSD at last. Thanks to Gregory Edigarov <greg@thing-fish.net>
and Alexander Zhouravlev <bofh@memphis.mephi.ru>

"Help" dialog invoked with F1 has been added.

CVS import now works more correctly. If doesn't import all files in the
project root directory any more. It adds only files listed in the
project settings.

Quoted text is now displayed more correctly in the internal editor.

Two features have been added to the internal gdb front-end: load core
dump file and view call stack.

Tutorial/ has been added to the distribution. You can find there two
HOWTO-style articles I wrote about motor.

2.3.1
-----

Many small fixes were made in the editor module.

Modifications were not comitted into CVS if comment was empty. Fixed.

Arguments were not reloaded correctly with gdb on changing with Ctrl-F12.

The build need on F8, F9 and F12 was checked not the best way. Improved :)

2.6.3
-----

Some interface fixes.

Added a default scheme mc that makes motor look like Midnight Commander,
a popular file manager.

Fixed a bug with loading files in DOS CRLF format incorrectly.

Ported to OpenBSD.

Polish translation by Krzysztof Krzy¿aniak <eloy@pawnhearts.eu.org> added to
the package.

If gdb wasn't installed motor hanged trying to run a program. Fixed.

The ctags program name has been changed to etags everywhere, since the
parameters motor passed to it and the format for output file recognized
was actually from etags, not ctags. In my Redhat system ctags was a part
of the Exuberant Ctags package, and a link to etags :)

2.15.7
------

First, I'd like to introduce a completely new idea of the project
building procedure. There are two major points. First is that now motor
uses its own generated special Makefile.func files. Everything about
cvs, compilers and debug is done with its reserved targets. And second,
(tada), at last I've added the automake support to motor. Now you can
generate completely GNU standard compatible distributions and use its
great functionality. Most of changes in this version are related to
previously described additions.

Several useful parameters were added to the "Motor settings" dialog.
"Show compiler output" and "Show cvs output" are useful to enable or
disable displaying the run-time output of appropriate external programs.
"Debug standard headers" turns on or off the ability to step inside the
system standard headers when you debug C or C++ programs.

"External output" item has been added to the "Project" dialog. You can
view all the output of external programs motor executes.

"Make a package" dialog has been improved dramatically. Now it doesn't
require you to enter lots of extra info, it just asks for a type of
resulting package and the path to place it to. Nothing else :) tar.gz
and rpm formats are supported.

"Build stuff" folder has been added to all the default templates. It
contains files such as configure.in, Makefile.am, *.spec, etc.

Removed the obsolete Buildrules file from templates. Now motor uses
Parserules to parse the compiler (and other external programs' if
needed) output.

"terminal program/java" template has been added to the default template
set.

Gettext support added. No you can turn it on for the project with the
"Project settings" dialog.

Config file named Debug was added to the set of template files.

Chinese translation by Zeyun Liang <liangn@kali.com.cn> was added.

"Regen. build stuff" item was added to the "Project" menu. If "makefile
mode" options of the project is set to "automake" it causes regeneration
of Makefile.am's and stuff.

Another new item in the "Project" menu named "Make a target" allows you
to run various targets of your project Makefile.

2.17.13
-------

Fixed a bug caused breakpoints positions being lost after closing a
project and opening it again.

Fixed a silent file save bug in editor. If the user hadn't a write
permission on a file being edited, though motor reported save success
all changes were lost.

Fixed motor's not passing command line arguments to a program ran
without gdb.

Some syntax highlight related problems in the internal editor module
were fixed.

Now C and C++ source are compiled with -O0 flag by default to avoid
nasty surprises with debugging.

Couldn't mark/unmark connected projects in the grepper dialog. Fixed.

Fixed a possibility to create two different projects with the same name.

A little UI improvement. External output window became higher.

2.20.14
-------

It's turned out that such a great pure GNU/Linux distribution named
Debian lacks the gmake binary though make is there. Complete
disappointment. Since now the motor ./configure scripts checks make for
being GNU and if it is, uses it instead of gmake.

The GNU copyright notice was added to every source file as the Vice
President of FSF requested me with e-mail message (no shit :)

The -a, --ascii command line parameter was added. When it's specified
motor draws its boxes and frames with ascii characters, dashes and
pipes, instead of using pseudo-graphics.

Syntax highlight problem in editor was fixed. C comments /* */ were not
displayed correctly from time to time.

"Default directory for new projects" parameter was added to the "Motor
settings" dialog.

3.0.0
-----

First, I need to say this version is a major rewrite. At a first glance
you could notice that the directory structure was changed dramatically.
But that's not the only thing that suffered a lot of changes. I
re-projected all the program classes, so that now every part is quite
separate, so performing further source modifications is gonna be much
easier. It also makes me proud of the work I made is that now UI is
separated from other parts of the program. This means there is a
possibility to make a GNOME version of motor, I also consider making a
readline based one. Because of the re-write you can find some things
looking a bit different. That's ok, I just tried to improve everything I
saw :)

I want to put a short notice here. The project format was changed, so
now you must re-create them with the new version of motor. Also, project
templates are not 100% compatible. Lots of configuration issues were
changed so that now it's much more flexible.

Fixed some compilation problems centericq caused with C++ compilers
that have no support for namespaces.

Version control systems and debuggers are now fully configurable. For
details, just take a look inside the $prefix/share/motor directory.

Motor is now able to take a version of project from configure.in during
import ("from files" creation mode).

I used a need for the rewrite to completely replace an old
grepper/finder tool with a new and nice dialog with a lot of functions.

Some exotic languages support was added (anyone knows what for? :) You
can now use --enable-locales-fix parameter with ./configure to make
motor display some Chinese and Japanese characters if it doesn't. You
can also turn on a basic support for Hebrew and Arabic with --with-fribidi.
Note, to use the latter you should have the fribidi library installed.
It's available at http://imagic.weizmann.ac.il/~dov/freesw/FriBidi

Hot keys now work in the top menu.

Manpage was added.

PS: I'm sure this version has a bunch of bugs, but the more you find and
    report the more are fixed :)

3.1.0
-----

This release is mostly intended to fix some post-rewrite bugs.

Applied a patch by Tony Lambiris <methodic@slartibartfast.angrypacket.com>
which makes it possible to compile motor under OpenBSD.

"./configure" scripts motor generated for its projects failed to run
with some versions of bash, because of AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS() macro with no
parameters in configure.in. Now if there is no connected libraries this
macro isn't inserted.

Presence of free console for debugger wasn't checked. Fixed along with a
bunch of other issues in the debugger front-end module.

Now it's possible to compile the program with GCC >= 3.0.0.

Fixed several bugs in the grepper tool that caused "selected folders"
and "connected projects" not to work at all.

External key bindings were fixed.

Now it's possible to disable free tty check, so that motor doesn't ask
you to run the program in the same console every time.

It was possible to open several times a physically not existing file
which was on the project file list.

Invoking grepper having no open files caused a segfault. Fixed.

Fixed some bugs in the VCS front-end module. It could neither detect
remotely added nor locally removed files.

Also, the VCS module was impoved, so that it assesses the repository
much more frequently. It could take ages to wait until all the changes
in a project are in repository.

It's now possible to open either a connected lib or one of its files
with the "Project files" dialog.

A check for the ncurses lib was added to the motor autoconf setup.

A VERY initial and raw template for perl programs was added. It doesn't
even support debugging yet.

An anonymous CVS synchronization script was included into the motor
package. Its name is motorsync. Use it if you wanna have the latest
development version of the software.

3.1.5
-----

Pascal syntax definition was added. Some bugs related to Pascal style
quotes were fixed.

FAQ now covers the process of freeing up a console for debugging.

Regexper tool was added. It can be invoked either from menu or with
Alt-R hotkey. It's possible to insert regular expressions or substrings
into the source or copy them into clipboard.

Default templates were improved.

"enable mcedit clipboard integration" options was added to the motor
configuration dialog. It makes motor use Midnight Commander's clipboard
file for its operations. Very useful to cut'n'paste text blocks between
the applications.

"disable smart tabs" option was also added to the same place. This one
controls behavior of the Enter key. When it's on the motor's internal
editor makes an align every time you press the key. Otherwise the cursor
always goes to the 0 position.

Now it's possible to specify a revision of CVS module to checkout in the
project creation dialog.

Some bugs in grepper regexp mode were fixed.

Syntax for gettext .po files was added.

Stack info fixed. Didn't work in the previous version.

3.2.0
-----

This version is intended to be a bugfix release. Below go descriptions
for some of the major ones.

configure.in wasn't created in the project root directory in "from
files" project creation mode with automake support turned on.

Grepper tool didn't do anything in "connected projects" search mode.

Fixed some Makefile.func issues in templates which caused problems under
FreeBSD, and didn't allow "dist" automake default target to work well in
resulting packages.

3.2.2
-----

Current file search and files loading into the editor was sped-up
dramatically. Finally.

The bug that caused breakpoints not to be saved correctly was fixed.

The breakpoints view dialog was improved by adding "Goto" button.
Current item in the dialog is now set dependent on current editor
position.

Tag browser dialog was improved. It's now possible to switch between
three view scopes: current file, current project and everything which
stands for the current project along with all connected libraries.

3.2.3
-----

The --debugtty parameter was added to make it possible to explicitely
specify a console where the output of a program being debugged will be
redirected. Useful in X environment, where you can easily debug your
programs in another xterm window this way.

The search-and-replace feature in the internal editor didn't work in the
"current file" scope.

Several screen redraw related problems were eliminated.

Now the projects with the "-" character in name get processed correctly
by auto-generated autoconf/automake stuff.

Command line parameters didn't get passed to the programs being debugged
in some cases. Fixed.

Fixed several issues that resulted into inability to compile the program
with gcc 3.x.

3.2.4
-----

More rules to track linking errors were added.

If it's not possible to import a particular file into the version
control system, a question is asked whether the IDE should add the file
only locally.

In the "from files" creation mode, when a project is created, the
generated Makefile.in and Makefile files are not imported anymore.

When the IDE refuses to add a file with a certain extension to a project
folder, the reason is displayed in the status line in the bottom of the
screen.

3.3.0
-----

Information about projects are now stored in each project's directory
under the generic name <projectname>.motor.

The tag browser dialog was improved. Now it's possible to turn off
displaying of some symbols.

The distribution package definitions in templates now provide additional
parameters. Like now, you can specify the target parameter for RPM from
the interface directly.

Some problems in parsing of the CVS output were fixed.

Now it's possible to add multiple files to a project using the motor's
file selection dialog.

Fixed a segfault on project creation that used to happen with motor
compiled with newer gcc.

Fixed some problems in motorsync script.

3.4.0
-----

This is a bugfix release. Its main points are the fixed rpm packages of
projects generation bug, a compile error in the parser module compiled with the
recent GCC and CVS diff viewing now works again.
